So we've got a bunch of empty tests and
I guess if I go over to this by via
the rule that we talked about earlier they
will all pass because they will not fail.
That is a good enough reason for
them to pass.
That said they don't spiritually pass,
they only technically pass.
So let's actually go ahead and
play around with some of this.
I alluded to this before
which is out of the box
right now this add item
button is disabled.
But as soon as you put something
in there it becomes enabled and
adds itself to the page, right?
Again, the nice part about Cypress
pausing at the end of a given test run
is you then get the page in that state and
you can kinda go visit it and
figure out what you wanna do next.
So if we tried to just click on
that button by ourselves, right?
So let's go over or grab it.
So stay test add item.
You see there's only one of them on
the page which is super helpful.
And we'll go ahead and
we'll just click on it.
Right and
you can see it's trying to click on it.
It's gonna try for
about four seconds to click on it, and
then it gives up and
then runs through the rest of the tests.
So you can force it if
you really wanted to,
because again it is using
JavaScript to do this.
But we don't want to because
we wanna test to make sure
that it is in fact not working.
So that's cool, but
we know that if we type something in there
we should be able to make it pass, right?
So let's go ahead and
grab that element again.
That's the new item input.
Just copy that over.
And we can paste it in.
And in here we're gonna
type recite good attitude.
Good attitude.
One of the things I could do in this test
I do a lot of my unit tests as well is
like values like this that I want to like
type and then also verify those screen.
That is a good argument for
something I should just store
in a variable because I don't want
my ID the beginning of the day,
I will spell all the words
right both times.
Towards the end of my workday, I will
not spell one of those words, right.
And I will think that my code is broken
because I spelled out a tude with
like three T's, right or something along
those lines where my code works just fine.
It's just my brain that doesn't.
So we could say like this case item.
And the reason I point this out is to kind
of point out that this will totally work.
And I can verify that it's on the page,
so I could say,
like, even item, and
that will go through and
I can see that it passes
in this case as well.
I can store values in variables.
It's one of the other subtle ways.
that the site I get is a little bit
different than just a jQuery selector.
Because again,
all this code is a synchronous,
it just looks synchronous, right?
But effectively all of those Cy dot
whatever methods are effectively kind
of going on to a stack and
be run one after the other.
Which means what I can't do is that old
move where we do a jQuery selector and
then we stored in a variable with like
dollar sign whatever I was looking for,
right?
Because in those cases you will not
have access to that value because these
are really just getting put
on a stack somewhere else and
executed yeah as it works the queue
as it runs through your tests.
We will talk about how to
get around that in like
literally the next section after this.
But for now just know that you can store
regular primitive values in variables and
they will have closure scope And that will
work, but the actual like Cypress chains,
you kinda need to think about
the chain all the way through.
The other thing that I will kinda we'll
see in a little bit as well is that,
if I do need the underlying raw
value of like, for instance,
this jQuery selector, or whatever,
or for the other things that we use,
if it's the path name, and
I literally want the string.
You can do a dot then where you'll,
I don't know what I
would get after typing I think
I get the element this case.
Where you'll actually get the underlying
value that's in that chain.
It looks like a promise,
it feels like a promise.
It's technically not a promise, right?
Again, you'll notice that we're not
writing a wait before every single one of
these sentences.
As if we you know you might
see in like puppeteer or
something along those lines because
Cypress is taking care of all that for us.
And so that is once you get that mental
model in place very convenient it can be
saving you a lot of extra typing and
a lot of headache, but there is that kind
of just mental framework that you need to
have there to understand that anything
that's in a chain that Cyprus is calling,
it needs to run through that chain.
You can get to the underlying
value with it then,
but it's not technically a promise,
it's why you don't need to use a weight.
Yeah.
>> When you say chain are you brings
to the seems like the Cy.methods.
>> Yep.
>> That scope.
>> Yeah, get the input,
and we chain on, dot type.
You could do additional things,
you could be, okay, go ahead and
get all of the checkboxes, and
then go get me the first one or
the last now you'll with that
chain begin to scope it down.
>> And this execute something
like a promise dot all.
>> With the shiny methods
where it it just grabs them
and-
>> Like,
spiritually yeah,
>> Yes.
Okay.
>> Yeah, technically no.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Right.
Yeah, cool.
So then we want to say not only
will it put it on the page, but
we want to make sure that by default
one goes on the unpacked items, right?
If I'm adding it on there as well so
in this case we kind of can take pieces
of this and we'll talk about how to take
common things that are happening in your
code and make abstractions around them.
Like for
instance signing up a user we're login and
user is something that maybe you
wanna like manually do once,
but you might need to do it for
every test that's starting fresh, right?
There's a way to go about doing that.
We're just not totally there yet,
but we will get there as well.
So before I clicked on that button,
which will submit the form.
The other thing that I can also do is I
can just go get the form element in this
case, there's one of them on the page.
Might have a slider as well, but
I go ahead, I can just submit it.
And then what I wanna do is
see that the unpacked items
contains the word that I typed
into the text field, right?
So it's a little, before we're just like,
does it appear on the page Now I'm like,
did it appear inside of
a particular parent element?
All right, so we're getting
a little bit more granular here.
So here we'll say this one I happen
to know off the top my head is items
unpacked.
So go find that unpacked items list
kind of just to see this one over here.
And we want to see that when they add
a new item and submit that form that
appears there not just anywhere on
the page, but where it's supposed to go.
You know, we can make additional
assertions about that as well.
But you can see I can,
I can chain that contains just like I
was alluding to earlier with that item.
And then it runs through the remainder of
the test that don't really do anything.
All right cool and
it should be the last item on the list.
And this is where the question before
about the chaining stuff goes along.
We're getting increasingly
granular about this so this.
So I am going to do a little
bit of copy paste action here.
And take what I have at this point and we
wanna make sure that it is the last one.
So go ahead, get me.
This data test and
find me the list items in there, right?
So this is the same way jQuery
works where I can start to
at any CSS selector
effectively works in this case.
So go to the overall list of unpacked
items, get me all of the list items.
Now we have multiple ones and this point,
I'm looking in that scope, right?
And go get me the last one.
Let me verify that chain is in there.
And it passes, you can see it there for
a flash if I skipped or
paused the other ones.
One of the things you'll notice is I
have a Visual Studio Code extension.
There's like three or four of them,
actually, if you want to see the most
recommended ones, they're on the Cypress,
Doc's web page, as well.
So you can see,
but they're the same thing works in
a lot of other unit testing frameworks.
Again, it's just smoke and shy,
where you can do it or describe that skip.
Or it.only and
if you put it .only on an int or describe,
it will only run that test or
only run that block of tests.
If you put a skip,
it will skip those tests, right?
So if you're working on one particular
test that's being problematic, and
you don't want to run all the other ones,
you could theoretically, I mean,
you should use an only or a skip.
The only reason that I didn't do that in
this case is because we have so many empty
tests like having you manually delete
skip on every single test felt rude.
So I didn't do it, but in your own day to
day as you're writing one test at a time,
you might definitely
find yourself doing that.
All right, cool.
So now we want to see with
this filter field, right?
It's a different describe block and
describe blocks, they're useful for
the before each and
stuff along those lines.
But the major purpose for our case is they
sort and organize my tests for me, right?
That's it.
In this particular case, I could have
a different before each and here,
you can see this is nested inside of
my major one as I alluded to before.
So they're all still visit the page but
then after that I'm using describe
blocks predominantly for sorting.
All right, so we want to type
something into the filter field and
then make sure that things that
match that are on the page.
So again, what I would do
in this case is I would go,
I would find the filter field where
we have data test filter items.
Go ahead, copy that over.
And now in here we'll type, .There
Tooth, one other things I'm
well aware is that, yeah,
I accidentally imported something
because I have auto import set up.
So I just deleted that real quick so
I'll type in the word tooth.
And then if I just look at
the dummy data on the page,
I can see that there is toothbrush and
toothpaste, they go hand in hand,
packing one without the other,
it's just not a good thing.
All right, so I want to verify that
both of them are on the page and
then we'll probably test
the opposite of that.
But let's go and
this is what we talked about before.
I don't need to make an assertion.
I think that should be there because the
act of them being there is good enough.
So here we'll say that side contains
toothbrush could I scope it
to just the unpacking of the packed items
I guess, but the filter works on both.
So you could scope it down
a little bit as well.
Sometimes it's, yeah, you can get
super technical about how you want but
if anything moves on the page,
your tests gonna break while
the functionality didn't, right?
So a lot of this is a game of loose
enough that things aren't breaking for
silly reasons, but strict enough that
it's actually testing the thing.
And that will be a recurring theme
that we talk about today as well.
So we'll verify that that is on the page.
You can see that one still passes.
We'll run through real quick so
you can watch it all.
Play through all of it, and
then the blank ones that go as well.
So then we wanna verify
the thing that does not exist.
So if I type in tooth,
I should not see a hoodie on that list.
All right, I'm already wearing the hoodie,
it does not need to be taken care of.
So here we'll honestly
we can grab this part.
Because it's again, a similar piece and
I guess that there is a lot of shorthand,
this feels tedious to type in the data
attribute or to keep doing every test.
And I'd love to just give it a short name,
or I'd love to do multiple
things in a single command.
Those are all good feelings that
you should think a lot about and
meditate on at some point.
So we could say, cy.contains.
Hoodie should not exist on the page,
right?
It is still in the data structure
somewhere but it is not on the page,
Cypress is only going to your
page as a user would do it and
seeing if it is presently on the page.
If it is hidden from CSS, it is not on
the page because your user wouldn't know.
If it is in your Redux store,
but currently not being rendered,
it is not on the page, right?
For any effective things as far as a user
of your page is concerned, it's not there.
So we can go ahead and we'll save those as
well, we'll check it in a second see so
that we don't have to keep watching,
we'll see.
If I made a boo boo, we'll find
out when we go look at the test.
So then we want to go ahead and
remove all the items,
right, in this case there's
a button that we would like to
click on that we would go ahead as well.
There are other ways to do this too,
you could theoretically go ahead and
find a specific one.
So one of the questions
Jesse asked before is,
what if I wanted to iterate over them,
right?
So here we're just saying,
does this page contain it, right?
I could scope it to packed or
unpacked items.
I could do a whole bunch of
things along those lines, right?
I have these selected for unpacked but
there's also one that's just items
which is both lists, it's the parent
element of both those two lists.
So one of the things that I could do in
this case if I wanted to make this test
a little bit better and
then we'll get to remove,
just thinking about that question
a little bit, is I could go ahead and
I could, So
I've got that little helper here.
Right, we'll say items.
And in there, go ahead and look at
all the list signs we did first and
last before, right?
So I could do also each which is going
to give me the underlying jQuery object.
Or I could get each and every one
of them and work through it, right?
And so it is not the underlying DOM node,
it is the jQuery collection,
which a lot of times,
if you ever wanted the first one,
you have to get the index zero out of it,
so on and so forth.
So I'm gonna take the old jQuery thing
that we did which is put a dollar sign to
simulate, to say this is not a string or
anything like that, it's a jQuery value.
So tent I could also say the syntax
a little different should work for
those chains if I want to actually just
take a value like I would do it in
a unit test, in that case I'll use expect.
The same effect in there but
should is useful for
the change we're gonna
parse that string in.
Expect is like, no, I'm basically writing
this as almost as if it was a unit test
because now this isn't the,
when I'm working through it,
I'm getting the jQuery object like
the JavaScript object, right?
And I am going ahead and evaluating and
calling methods on that object.
It's why I would still probably just make
sure that things were on the page where I
thought they were, but this is mostly to
demonstrate how you might kinda go down
one level deeper in the cases
that might necessitate it.
So I could expect that items,
or item, really,
right, cuz I'm iterating through them.
Item, not in caps, not yelling it,
item.txt which is the jQuery
method in this case,
To, let's go with include ('Tooth'),
right?
Let's verify that that works in this case,
It goes through, they all pass, right?
So you can get a level
deeper if you need to.
That's what we're talking about
that dot then before, right?
If t's one value, dot then will kinda
give you the underlying object that you
can play around with versus
the Cypress chain, which are again,
kinda abstracting as you
continue working with it.
You can return something out of here,
kinda like you would with a promise and
then continue chaining on it as well.
There's also a method called site.wrap,
and what site.wrap will do is it'll take
anything that is not a Cypress
chainable object and
it will make it a Cypress
chainable object, right?
So if you need to pass something
you continue chaining on but
it's not a Cypress return value, you can
do site.wrap, which takes whatever value
it is and wraps in something you
can continue a Cypress chain with.
So if we needed to do
something here as well,
I would possibly,
this is expect, it's fine, but
I can continue chaining if I had a value
that I wanted to kind of pass on.
If I wanted to get a particular
property and there's some syntax for
that as well that we'll see,
I can do all those things as well.
So you can drop down a level
deeper if you need to.
But I would also question whether or
not you need to sometimes, right?
I did not get anything done really with
this test, I couldn't do otherwise,
other than demonstrating that.
It's one of those things,
do you always need it, no.
When you need it,
do you definitely need it?
Sure, all right, and so mostly putting
a mental note in your head that it exists,
and then we can kind of
think about it like that.
So there is a button to remove
all the items in the page.
So this is, again,
where I might do a similar selector thing.
But I don't have to iterate
through all of them.
I'm gonna be like, hey, if I remove
all the items from the page, and
I go to get all the list items,
there shouldn't be any, right?
So let's go ahead,
let's grab that as well.
And we'll say Remove All.
Take that and we will click it,
In this case.
And then what we basically
wanna say is that those items,
again, it's just CSS selectors, right?
It's just that getting a data attribute or
any HTML attribute in square
brackets is long and gnarly.
But go through and there shouldn't be any.
All right, and we'll go through, it's
running through all my tests in this case.
At this point, there are none on the page
as soon as we click that button, right?
One of these extensions lets me
just click something to add .only,
you can choose to install that or not.
That is,
I forget which is exact one of this,
I think it's the Open Cypress one, you can
see the ones that pop up here as well.
Cool, remove individual items on the page,
all right,
you can get a sense of how
this is gonna work, right?
If you look, I can remove
an individual one, I will click on it.
In this case, it should no longer
appear for that given one.
This one's gonna be kind of
interesting because I wanna make sure
that it's the one that I chose
not to have on the page, right?
So here we're gonna have to say like,
go get me a given one,
and then click on it and
make sure that that one is not there.
Cool, so let's actually play
around with that one for a second.
So this is one of those things where
we need to basically store it.
But we can't store those selectors in
variables like we could in jQuery cuz of
the whole asynchronous thing that
we talked about earlier, right?
So we're going to have to be,
click this one, but
then I wanna make sure that
one is not on the page.
Which one?
Normally, we would store it in a variable,
right?
Can't store in a variable
we're just talking about, so
we need to figure out some of
the various components and
concepts that we're talking about
is trying to see it in practice.
So here we will say, we'll go ahead and
grab a given one or
let's do all of them, right?
So I'll do gda, this is my shortcut.
And I'm gonna say go through all
the items, get each list item.
And then what I wanna do
is iterate through them.
And that will give me just the,
I guess, dollar sign alive,
cuz it's the jQuery object.
If I'm gonna follow rules that are not
forced upon me, that's what I should do.
So we'll go through, and that's now
a jQuery object, which is a JavaScript
object, and I wanna chain it,
which is the method that we can use to,
how do I ask a question by
giving you the answer in it?
Take something that's not a Cypress chain
and turn it back into a Cypress chain.
>> Wrap?
>> Wrap, all right?
So here we can see site.wrap for
the first time in action.
Where, cool, as we iterate through
each one, go through and find it.
And we wanna make sure that
it is not on the page.
All right, so
now I've got just that one in this case.
And so what I might choose
to do here is I have it.
I wanna find its particular
('[data-test="remove"]'), right?
So now we have that given li,
we wanna find its
removed button, and
we want to click on it.
Well, we wanna make sure it's there, and
we also wanna make sure that
it's not there anymore.
So click.
At this point, we could theoretically,
Let's try this out.
I remove it and then make sure
that one is not on the page.
Let's find out together if that works.
And it does, right?
So now we can do separate things with it.
We have it in that closure.
We can do each one of those one at a time.
So basically,
it's going through every single one.
It's going ahead finding its
remove button, it's clicking it.
And it's verifying that that
one is not on the page as well.
We will learn about aliases imminently.
And when we do, there are ways to say,
hey, this thing,
I do need to store it with
a way to reference it later.
It just won't be in a variable, right?
So that there are other and a lot of
times, slightly easier ways, depending for
doing this for
common things on your page, right?
Like if you had a complicated form or
a login screen,
you'd just wanna find
these things constantly.
There are ways to do that as well.
All right, for some of these,
I think we've gotten the major point here.
We can verify, in this case,
that clicking on it should move it
from one list to the other, right?
I think we've got the core concept here,
right?
And so we'll leave some of these
as a further kind of exercise.
There is the completed examples if you
wanna kinda check different ways to do it.
For some of them, there's, here's one
way to do it, we can get increasingly,
we can try a few different ways in that
as well, but for the sake of kind of,
I think we've gotten
this kind of core piece.